Value a company using the discount
cash flow method consists, as
you can do to the idea, in
estimating either the value
of the company or the value
of the equity of the own
funds from the cash flows that
this company will generate
in the future.
Therefore, there are basically two steps.
First and then we have to
discount it.
Here what I want to introduce you is
that there are different types of
cash flows that we will study the
most important and depending on whether
we choose one type of cash flow
or another, which are
representative of different
things, we will have to
discount them at a rate, at a
different cost of capital.
I would like to make a brief
analysis of what are the
advantages, pros and cons of
the cash flow discount method
over the rest.
Let me start with the benefits.
I would like you to be clear that
if we had to choose one method
we would actually have to choose
cash flow discount and for
a number of reasons.
One of them is because it is probably
the most real.
Real is a very broad word,
but what do I mean by this?
You think one thing, when you
buy a business or when you invest
in a business or an asset, it
doesn't matter in any investment,
in the bottom, what you
are buying is the hope of getting
some future cash flows.
You do is commit some current
cash flows, which is your investment,
with the hope of receiving in
the future some cash flows
that can be via dividends,
give me equal or via sale
of your stake with a plus-
value, etc.
And it is that this is exactly
what we will value, what we will
value is that, is that you
will actually get or not get those
future cash flows and at what risk?
It is therefore more oriented
to the real interests or the
real goals of the buyer.
Benefit number two.
With the cash flow discount, we
will calculate the intrinsic
value of our company.
Remember, for example, when we
evaluated by multiple that what
we did was to analyze how much
companies are worth in our
market, in our sector, etc.
We took conclusions and
applied them to ours.
In this case the discount
of cash flow is, I like to call
it a custom costume.
We will create a method in which
we will incorporate absolutely
all the factors that
we consider related to
our company.
We will only measure ourselves
and we will project, estimate
what cash flows we will
generate.
So we will calculate the intrinsic
value of our company and
another benefit is that it
is a more flexible method and
I will give you an example
so that you understand what
I mean.
For example, we can project
different scenarios.
Imagine that we have projected
a 5% sales growth for the next
five years because you
consider that prudent,
reasonable, but it may be
that a 10% or 10 and a
half sales growth will occur.
We can see different scenarios.
The base scenario, a more flat conservative
scenario and an optimistic
scenario.
And what we can do is incorporate
it into the method and do a sensitivity
analysis, for example, in which
we estimate what the impact
each of the scenarios has
on the value of the company.
Well, as we've seen, it's a more
tailor-made method, it's more
complete, but it also has a number
of peres, a number of disadvantages
that you should simply
know.
The first is that it is a more complicated
method for many reasons, because it
is more laborious to do so, it is
more difficult to project the cash
flows of the self-enterprise than
to analyze the multiple in your sector.
In addition, it requires you to have
a business plan, because it
is to project what will happen in the
coming years, because it requires you
to have analyzed and planned well, that
you know you have estimated how much
you will grow, how much you will sell,
what developments you will make,
what investments you will
make, etc.
Very detailed, if you don't
have this done well, the
discount of cash flows won't be
able to do well, you won't be
able to project those flows.
So it's more laborious, it requires
more financial knowledge,
it requires a greater knowledge
of it's more complicated, it's
something you have to keep in mind.
And, in addition, another circumstance
I want to highlight is that
the discount of cash flows is a
valuation method that is supported
in numerous hypotheses.
We can call it hypotheses, we
can call it assumptions, we
can call it variables as you
want to call it, but in the end you
have in mind that this is
doing very complex calculations
using a method, projecting
the flows, discounting
them, etc.
A mathematical method, but in which
you have incorporated many
variables or many hypotheses.
For example, as I said before,
how much you'll grow in sales.
Of course, if all these hypotheses
are not supported in reality,
the valuation you receive
will not really represent
the value of your company.
To understand this, I'll tell
you a personal anecdote.
I, the first thing I did when I
joined the professional world,
before I ended the career,
is to do the valuation of an
immovable promoter, who I evaluated
using the discount of cash
flows.
A promoter who had or has real
estate assets that are soil
in different stages of Well,
I used the method and did
it ultra-orthodox.
The method was well applied.
The financial modeling was perfect.
What happens is that the hypotheses
on which it was based,
basically that I estimated,
lacked all common sense.
It was absolute stupidity.
I will give you an example
so you can get an idea.
It was 2006 or so, I think,
we were in full real estate boom.
The price of housing seemed
to be going up to infinity.
Well, because I projected
a growth in the price of housing
from, I think, 7 and a half percent
annually to a sustainable,
indefinite future.
What is stupid.
But of course, by incorporating that
hypothesis within the model, it gave
a valuation of the company.
The total value of the company
was 300 million.
We were in a buying-selling process.
We were selling that company
to our client.
Another hypothesis is that
from the soils that the promoter
had, we consider that in
a period of five years,
all those soils would
become finalist soils.
In other words, they would become
urban soils.
There are two possibilities.
That they were stupid, that they
did not, obviously, and that they
made the value we reached, that
they were 300 million, really
lacking all common sense.
The method was well applied.
This is what we always say that Excel
supports everything.
You can know the method, but if the
hypotheses you are building on
are not good, there is no common
sense in them, you do not have
good knowledge of the market,
you do not have good
knowledge of your business,
etc., the value you reach will
have no meaning.